PROJECT SUMMARY: A Web Application Featuring a Cloud-Based, Collaborative, Real-Time Integrated Development Environment

	Collaborative software development is difficult to manage to this day.  While any competent coder with the proper time and information can write a necessary piece of software, man hours of labor are not a proper measurement of the difficulty of said development. Common sense would dictate that if one coder could complete a given application in X hours, two codes could complete the task in X divided by two hours. This however is not the case in reality due to the fact that two separate coders working on separate files are limited by communication, and the same two coders cannot edit the same file at once. While work-arounds such as Git and Google Docs do exist to allow simultaneous editing, neither is optimal for the task of collaborative development.
	This project proposal seeks to find an optimal solution for collaborative, real-time coding that can easily facilitate communication and multi-client file editing without sacrificing the convenience and versatility of modern text editors and integrated development environments. Using the Node.JS framework and several to-be-determined javascript libraries and frameworks, the intended final product will feature syntax highlighting, cloud-based file storage, a basic shell sub-server, a project-based messenger client, text autocompletion, and potentially several other features re-implemented from pre-existing IDEs.

Intellectual Merit: This project will require the development of one or more key algorithms in order to perform tasks possibly including but not limited to: synchronized client key input with consistent caret tracking, tracking of multiple text carets managed by a single client in order to quickly perform large-scale repetitive edits (also known as the Muntz chalkboard solution), local and global variable referencing with regards to pattern recognition and text autocompletion, etc.
Broader Impacts: The proposed research project will provide a finished product capable of greatly increasing the efficiency of collaboration in software and website development. In addition, it will provide the participant developer an opportunity to experience first-hand the process of developing a complete software product. Such an experience is critical in the hiring process of most legitimate software, web, and other assorted business firms.
